Misc clarifications (#748)
raml-org/raml-spec: versions/raml-10/raml-10.md

types:
  Weight:
    type: number
    minimum: -1.1
    maximum: 20.9
    format: float
    multipleOf: 1.1
```

##### Integer

> Any JSON number, positive or negative multiple of 1. The integer type inherits its facets from the [number type](#number).

Author: The former. Thanks!

types:
  Person:
    type: !include person.json
    description: this is a schema describing a person
  Board:
    properties:
      members: Person[] # invalid use of type expression '[]' and as a property type
```

A RAML processor MUST be able to interpret and apply JSON and XML schemas.

> A XML schema, or JSON schema, MUST NOT be used where the media type does not allow XML-formatted data, or JSON-formatted data, respectively. XML and JSON schemas are also forbidden in any declaration of query parameters, query string, URI parameters, and headers.

Author: Thanks! I learnt something today :)

```yaml
type: !include elements.xsd#Foo
```

When referencing an inner element of a schema, a RAML processor MUST validate an instance against that particular element. The RAML specification supports referencing any inner elements in JSON schemas that are valid schemas, any globally defined elements, and complex types in XML schemas. There are only a few restrictions:

* Validation of any XML or JSON instance against inner elements MUST follow the same restrictions as the validation against a regular XML or JSON schema.
* Referencing complex types inside an XML schema is valid to determine the structure of an XML instance, but since complex types do not define a name for the top-level XML element, these types SHALL NOT be used for serializing an XML instance.

### User-defined Facets

Facets express various additional restrictions beyond those which types impose on their instances, such as the optional `minimum` and `maximum` facets for numbers, or the `enum` facet for scalars. In addition to the built-in facets, RAML provides a way to declare user-defined facets for any data type.

> The user-defined facet is declared using the OPTIONAL `facets` facet in a type declaration. The value of the `facets` facet MUST be a map. The key names the user-defined facet. The corresponding value defines the concrete value that the respective facet can take. The syntax of a [property declaration](#property-declarations) and user-defined facet declaration are the same. A facet restricts instances of a subtype, not its type, based on the concrete value defined in the facet declaration.

Reviewer: I'd normally recommend "subtype," but "sub-type" is used more often on this page even in unedited areas.

In this example, declaring the `noHolidays` facet and defining its values to be boolean makes it possible to restrict date instances that fall on holidays. Instances of any inheriting type, such as the `PossibleMeetingDate` type, must have values that do not fall on holidays.

> User-defined facets by definition are not built into this RAML specification, and hence their semantic MAY not be understood by all RAML processors. Consequently, a RAML processor may or may not choose to use user-defined facets on a type in validating instances of that type. In the example above, a RAML processor may or may not assign a meaning to `noHolidays`, and therefore, may choose to ignore the `noHolidays: true` value in validating instances of `PossibleMeetingDate`.

Reviewer: Note: Not sure if MAY needs to be capitalized after "their semantics" or perhaps after "a RAML processor." In the first case, seems that MAY is not a term used for enforcement of the RAML standard, just as a statement of fact that is acknowledged and expected. It's allowed only because it's impossible for the processor to anticipate them. Perhaps the enforcement applies to the processor instead?

```suggestion
By definition, user-defined facets are not built into this RAML specification, and therefore, their semantics might not be understood by all RAML processors. Consequently, a RAML processor MAY (or may not) choose to use user-defined facets on a type in validating instances of that type. In the example above, a RAML processor may or may not assign a meaning to `noHolidays`, and therefore, may choose to ignore the `noHolidays: true` value in validating instances of `PossibleMeetingDate`.
```

Author: You're right.

### Type Expressions

> Type expressions provide a powerful way of referring to, and even defining, types. Type expressions MAY be used wherever a type is expected. The simplest type expression is just the name of a type. Using type expressions, you MAY devise type unions, arrays, maps, and other things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type expressions provide a powerful way of referring to, and even defining, types. Type expressions MAY be used wherever a type is expected. The simplest type expression is the name of a type. Using type expressions, you MAY devise type unions, arrays, maps, and other things.
```

Section [union types](#union-multiple-inheritance) illustrates another example of how to validate types that use multiple inheritance and union types.

> If a sub-type inherits properties having the same name from at least two of its parent types, the sub-type SHALL keep all restrictions applied to those properties with two exceptions: 1) a "pattern" facet when a parent type already declares a "pattern" facet 2) a user-defined facet when another user-defined facet has the same value. In these cases, an invalid type declaration occurs.

Reviewer: should "pattern" be `pattern` in both places?

Author: It should, yes.

> If a sub-type inherits properties having the same name from at least two of its parent types, the sub-type SHALL keep all restrictions applied to those properties with two exceptions: 1) a "pattern" facet when a parent type already declares a "pattern" facet 2) a user-defined facet when another user-defined facet has the same value. In these cases, an invalid type declaration occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a sub-type inherits properties having the same name from at least two of its parent types, the sub-type SHALL keep all restrictions applied to those properties with two exceptions: 1) a `pattern` facet when a parent type already declares a `pattern` facet 2) a user-defined facet when another user-defined facet has the same value. In these cases, an invalid type declaration occurs.
```

#### Single Example

> The OPTIONAL **example** facet MAY be used to attach an example of a type instance to the type declaration. There are two ways to represent the example facet value: as an explicit description of a specific type instance and as a map that contains additional facets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OPTIONAL **example** facet MAY be used to attach an example of a type instance to the type declaration. There are two ways to represent the example facet value: as an explicit description of a specific type instance, or as a map that contains additional facets.
```

##### As a map that contains additional facets

The map MAY contain the following additional facets:

| Facet | Description |
|:--------|:------------|
| displayName? | An alternate, human-friendly name for the example. If the example is part of an examples node, the default value is the unique identifier that is defined for this example.

> | description? | A substantial, human-friendly description for an example. Its value MUST be a string and MAY be formatted using [markdown](#markdown).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| description? | A substantial, human-friendly description for an example. Its value MUST be a string and MAY be formatted using [Markdown](#markdown).
```

> | (&lt;annotationName&gt;)? | [Annotations](#annotations) to be applied to this API. An annotation MUST be a map having a key that begins with "(" and ends with ")" where the text enclosed in parentheses is the annotation name, and the value is an instance of that annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| (&lt;annotationName&gt;)? | [Annotations](#annotations) to be applied to this API. An annotation MUST be a map having a key that begins with "(" and ends with ")", where the text enclosed in parentheses is the annotation name and the value is an instance of that annotation.
```

| value | The actual example of a type instance.

> | strict? | Validates the example against any type declaration (the default), or not. Set this to false to avoid validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| strict? | Validates the example against any type declaration (the default), or not. Set this facet to false to avoid validation.
```

### Resource Property

> The value of a resource node MUST be a map whose key-value pairs are described in the following table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value of a resource node MUST be a map containing the key-value pairs described in the following table.
```

| Name | Description |
|:--------|:------------|
| displayName? | An alternate, human-friendly name for the resource. If the displayName node is not defined for a resource, documentation tools SHOULD refer to the resource by its key, which acts as the resource name. For example, tools SHOULD refer to the relative URI `/jobs`.

> | description? | A substantial, human-friendly description of a resource. Its value MUST be a string and MAY be formatted using [markdown](#markdown).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| description? | A substantial, human-friendly description of a resource. Its value MUST be a string and MAY be formatted using [Markdown](#markdown).
```

> | (&lt;annotationName&gt;)? | [Annotations](#annotations) to be applied to this API. An annotation MUST be a map having a key that begins with "(" and ends with ")" where the text enclosed in parentheses is the annotation name, and the value is an instance of that annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| (&lt;annotationName&gt;)? | [Annotations](#annotations) to be applied to this API. An annotation MUST be a map having a key that begins with "(" and ends with ")", where the text enclosed in parentheses is the annotation name and the value is an instance of that annotation.
```

| get?<br>patch?<br>put?<br>post?<br>delete?<br>options?<br>head? | The object describing the [method](#methods).
| is? | A list of [traits to apply](#applying-resource-types-and-traits) to all methods declared (implicitly or explicitly) for this resource. Individual methods can override this declaration.
| type? | The [resource type](#applying-resource-types-and-traits) that this resource inherits.
| securedBy? | The [security schemes](#applying-security-schemes) that apply to all methods declared (implicitly or explicitly) for this resource.
| uriParameters? | Detailed information about any URI parameters of this resource.

> | /&lt;relativeUri&gt;? | A nested resource, which is identified as any node whose name begins with a slash (`/`), and SHALL therefore be treated as a relative URI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| /&lt;relativeUri&gt;? | A nested resource is any node whose name begins with a slash (`/`). This resource SHALL therefore be treated as a relative URI.
```

    description: An item in the collection of all files
```

> Although a URI parameter MAY be explicitly specified as optional, it SHOULD be required when surrounded directly by slashes (`/`). In this case, the URI parameter constitutes a complete URI path fragment, for example `.../{objectId}/...`. It usually makes no sense to allow a URI to contain adjacent slashes, enclosing no characters, for example `...//...`. Hence, a URI parameter SHOULD be specified as optional only when it appears adjacent to other text. For example, `/people/~{fieldSelectors}` indicates that URI parameter `{fieldSelectors}` can be blank, and therefore optional, implying that `/people/~` is a valid relative URI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although a URI parameter MAY be explicitly specified as optional, it SHOULD be required when surrounded directly by slashes (`/`). In this case, the URI parameter constitutes a complete URI path fragment, for example `.../{objectId}/...`. It usually makes no sense to allow a URI to contain adjacent slashes, enclosing no characters, for example, `...//...`. Therefore, a URI parameter SHOULD be specified as optional only when it appears adjacent to other text. For example, `/people/~{fieldSelectors}` indicates that URI parameter `{fieldSelectors}` can be blank, and therefore optional, which implies that `/people/~` is a valid relative URI.
```

## Methods

> RESTful API methods are operations that are performed on a resource. The OPTIONAL properties **get**, **patch**, **put**, **post**, **delete**, **head**, and **options** of a resource define its methods; these correspond to the HTTP methods defined in the HTTP version 1.1 specification [RFC2616](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt) and its extension, [RFC5789](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5789). The value of these method properties MUST be a map with the following key-value pairs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RESTful API methods are operations that are performed on a resource. The OPTIONAL properties **get**, **patch**, **put**, **post**, **delete**, **head**, and **options** of a resource define its methods. These properties correspond to the HTTP methods defined in the HTTP version 1.1 specification [RFC2616](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2616.txt) and its extension, [RFC5789](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5789). The value of these method properties MUST be a map with the following key-value pairs:
```

### Headers

> An API's methods MAY support or require various HTTP headers. The OPTIONAL **headers** node MAY be used to explicitly specify those headers. The value of the headers node MUST be a map, specifically a [properties declaration](#property-declarations), as is the value of the properties object of a type declaration. Each property in this declaration object is a header **declaration**. Each property name specifies an allowed header name. Each property value specifies the header value type as a type name or an inline type declaration.

Reviewer: RE ", as is the value of the properties object of a type declaration. " Grammatically unclear what it refers to, though I assume it means that the value is also a properties declaration map. People who speak English as a second language could conceivably find it unclear.

Author: Agreed. Maybe something like: ", similarly to the properties node."

> An API's methods MAY support or require various HTTP headers. The OPTIONAL **headers** node MAY be used to explicitly specify those headers. The value of the headers node MUST be a map, specifically a [properties declaration](#property-declarations), as is the value of the properties object of a type declaration. Each property in this declaration object is a header **declaration**. Each property name specifies an allowed header name. Each property value specifies the header value type as a type name or an inline type declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An API's methods MAY support or require various HTTP headers. The OPTIONAL **headers** node MAY be used to explicitly specify those headers. Like the value of the properties node, the value of the headers node MUST be a map, specifically a [properties declaration](#property-declarations). Each property in this declaration object is a header **declaration**. Each property name specifies an allowed header name. Each property value specifies the header value type as a type name or an inline type declaration.
```

### Query Strings and Query Parameters

> An API method MAY support or require a query string in the URL on which the method is invoked. The query string in a URL MUST follow [RFC3986](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt) as the part of the URL following the question mark separator (`?`) and preceding any fragment (`#`) separator. The query string MAY be specified either by the OPTIONAL **queryString** node or by the OPTIONAL **queryParameters** node. The queryString and queryParameters nodes SHALL BE mutually exclusive: processors MUST NOT allow both to be specified, explicitly or implicitly, on the same method of the same resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An API method MAY support or require a query string in the URL on which the method is invoked. The query string in a URL MUST follow [RFC3986](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt) specifications for the part of the URL following the question mark separator (`?`) and preceding any fragment (`#`) separator. The query string MAY be specified either by the OPTIONAL **queryString** node or by the OPTIONAL **queryParameters** node. The queryString and queryParameters nodes SHALL BE mutually exclusive: processors MUST NOT allow both to be specified, explicitly or implicitly, on the same method of the same resource.
```

Author: I think it should be "the RFC3986 specification" (singular) as we normally refer to a RFC as a specification and RFC3986 is a single RFC.

Reviewer: ah, ok. I edited the suggestion.

Reviewer: revised via a suggestion below. "Like the value of the properties node, the value of the headers node MUST be a map, specifically a [properties declaration](#property-declarations)."

The resources and methods sections of this document describe HTTP requests. This section describes the HTTP responses to method invocations on resources.

The OPTIONAL **responses** node of a method on a resource describes the possible responses to invoking that method on that resource. The value of **responses** MUST be a map where each key name represents that a possible HTTP status codes for that method on that resource. The values describe the corresponding responses. Each value MUST be a [response declaration](#response-declaration).

Keys SHOULD BE numeric, for example 200 or 204. Processors MUST treat these numeric keys as string keys in all situations. For example, '200' and 200 MUST be treated as duplicate keys, and therefore, are not allowed simultaneously.

### Response Declaration

The value of a response declaration MUST be a map with the following key-value pairs

| Name | Description |
|:--------|:------------|
| description? | A substantial, human-friendly description of a response. Its value MUST ve a string and MAY be formatted using [markdown](#markdown).

> | (&lt;annotationName&gt;) | [Annotations](#annotations) to be applied to this API. An annotation MUST be a map having a key that begins with "(" and ends with ")" where the text enclosed in parentheses is the annotation name, and the value is an instance of that annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| (&lt;annotationName&gt;) | [Annotations](#annotations) to be applied to this API. An annotation MUST be a map having a key that begins with "(" and ends with ")", where the text enclosed in parentheses is the annotation name and the value is an instance of that annotation.
```

A resource type, like a resource, can specify security schemes, methods, and other nodes. A resource that uses a resource type inherits its nodes. A resource type can also use, and thus inherit from, another resource type. Resource types and resources are related through an inheritance chain pattern. A resource type definition MUST NOT incorporate nested resources. A resource type definition cannot be used to generate nested resources when the definition is applied to a resource. A resource type definition does not apply to its own existing nested resources.

> A trait, like a method, can provide method-level nodes such as description, headers, query string parameters, and responses. Methods that use one or more traits inherit nodes of those traits. A resource and resource type can also use, and thus inherit from, one or more traits, which then apply to all methods of the resource and resource type. Traits are related to methods through a mixin pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A trait, like a method, can provide method-level nodes such as a description, headers, query string parameters, and responses. Methods that use one or more traits inherit nodes of those traits. A resource and resource type can also use, and thus inherit from, one or more traits, which then apply to all methods of the resource and resource type. Traits are related to methods through a mixin pattern.
```

|Name | Description |
|:--------|:------------|
| types?<br>schemas?<br>resourceTypes?<br>traits?<br>securitySchemes?<br>annotationTypes?<br>(&lt;annotationName&gt;)?<br>uses? | The definition of each node is the same as that of the corresponding node at the root of a RAML document. A library supports annotation node like any other RAML document.

> | usage? | Describes the content or purpose of a specific library. The value is a string and MAY be formatted using [markdown](#markdown).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| usage? | Describes the content or purpose of a specific library. The value is a string and MAY be formatted using [Markdown](#markdown).
```
